# Singleton Logger

## Description

This project implements a logging system for an application using the Singleton design pattern. The Singleton pattern ensures that all parts of the application log messages through a single instance of the logger, thereby centralizing and standardizing the logging process. The logger writes messages to an `application.log` file located at the root of the application.

## Implementation Details

### Logger Class (`logger.py`)

The `Logger` class implements the Singleton design pattern to create a single instance of the logger. It initializes the logger with a specified log level and formatter, directing log messages to the `application.log` file.

#### Methods:

- **`initialize_logger(self)`**: Initializes the logger instance with the necessary configurations such as log level, formatter, and file handler.

- **`log(self, message)`**: Logs the provided message with the specified log level.

#### Example Usage:

```python
logger1 = Logger()
logger1.log("This is a log message from logger1")

logger2 = Logger()
logger2.log("This is a log message from logger2")
```
### Main Module ('main.py')

The `main.py` module demonstrates the usage of the Logger class by instantiating two logger objects and logging messages through them.

#### Example Usage:

```python
from Logger import Logger

logger1 = Logger()
logger1.log("This is a log message from logger1")

logger2 = Logger()
logger2.log("This is a log message from logger2")
```
  
####Log File (`application.log`)
The application.log file stores the log messages generated by the application. Each log entry includes the timestamp, log level, and message.

Sample Log Entries:

```python
2024-02-10 20:44:37,416 - INFO - This is a log message from logger1
2024-02-10 20:44:37,416 - INFO - This is a log message from logger2
2024-02-10 20:52:13,741 - INFO - This is a log message from logger1
2024-02-10 20:52:13,741 - INFO - This is a log message from logger2
2024-02-10 20:54:50,837 - INFO - This is a log message from logger1
2024-02-10 20:54:50,837 - INFO - This is a log message from logger2
```
## Conclusion

Implementing a logging system using the Singleton design pattern ensures that all parts of the application share a single logger instance, promoting consistency and centralization in logging. By directing log messages to a designated log file, developers can efficiently track events, errors, and system behavior.

